Empex NY

> Any topics related to functional programming languages and its ecosystems are encouraged. We love talks that offer a unique perspective on technical challenges programmers face, such as deployment and orchestration, as well as interesting case studies of new and different ways to apply functional technologies.

> Generally speaking, we bias towards technical talks. Our audience largely consists of experienced software developers with some beginners. Many of our attendees are not yet using functional languages in production, but they're all very interested in learning something new. Feel free to throw 'em in the deep end!

> Our conference fully embraces both new and experienced speakers. We strongly value featuring a diverse, creative line-up of speakers: ones from different backgrounds with a wealth of different experiences to share with our attendees.

## I Love JavaScript

We've all been in a relationship, that is, one-sided. A situation where you feel like all you do is give, give, give, and the other side is not reciprocal. An unhealthy, emotionally draining, physically exhausting, can't take it anymore, was this ever good, type of relationship. I am, of course, talking from my experience with JavaScript. The most fickle of partners. Over the years, I have poured my heart and soul into understanding, and at one time or another enjoying, teaching, and even defending, the quirks and rough edges of JavaScript. When things were difficult, fraught with mutation and run-time errors, I made excuses. ECMA Script 2021 will be better. It's always been like that. It's me, I need more testing. What else could I possibly use, JavaScript is everywhere! For all my struggles with JavaScript, I still love it. I enjoy prototyping in it, making quick ideas come to life in codepen or coding sandbox and sharing them with others. Yet make no mistake, quick out of the gate and thousands of papercuts all the way down. It is often said about LiveView, "No more JavaScript!" I adamantly dissent from this idea. Remember, I love JavaScript, and like a knight of the realm will defend its honor. What I propose instead is a comparison on merits. We'll look at several every day client-side interactions and compare, what it looks like for the user and the developer. LiveView will win some, JavaScript will win some, or it could be a total draw and you can use whatever tool you have handy.
The idea of this talk is to challenge the collective idea that JavaScript is bad. It's a tool, like any other. We like to think we choose the best tool for the job, but in reality, we choose the tool we like or want and then justify it with strawman arguments to support our decision. I love JavaScript and Elixir, so how do I decide which one to use when? Let's figure out some everyday use cases and compare them.

I Love JavaScript. There I said it. What am I to do when faced with the daunting challenge of diving into LiveView or taking the path well traveled, be it fraught with thorns, and sticking with client-side JavaScript. The inner struggle is real, and I'm sure there's plenty of opinions. Join me as the journey unfolds this year at Empex NY 2020. el
